Last summer I volunteered at the Sunny Days Animal Shelter and it was one of the most meaningful experiences of my life. I learned a lot about animals and also about myself and I think everyone should try volunteering at least once.

When I first got there I was nervous because I didn't know what to expect. The shelter was bigger than I thought and there were so many animals. There were dogs and cats and even some rabbits. The people who worked there were really nice and showed me what to do. My main job was helping clean the cages and feed the animals and sometimes taking the dogs for walks.

The dogs were my favorite part. There was this one dog named Biscuit who was a brown lab mix and he was really shy at first. The staff said he had been abandoned by his owner and didn't trust people very much. I made it my goal to get him to trust me. Every day I would sit by his cage and talk to him quietly and after about a week he started coming up to me and letting me pet him. It was such an amazing feeling when he finally wagged his tail at me.

I also learned that working at a shelter is not all fun and games. It was really sad seeing animals that nobody wanted. Some of them had been there for months and you could tell they were depressed. The older cats especially seemed to have given up hope. It made me realize how important it is to adopt from shelters instead of buying from breeders.

Another thing I learned is that volunteering teaches you responsibility. I had to show up on time and do tasks that weren't always fun like cleaning up messes. But knowing that the animals depended on me made me want to be reliable. My mom said she noticed I became more responsible at home too which was cool.

By the end of the summer Biscuit got adopted by a family with kids and I cried when they took him home. Happy tears though because I knew he was going to a good place. The staff gave me a certificate and said I was one of the best volunteers they had which made me feel proud.

In conclusion volunteering at the animal shelter taught me about compassion, responsibility, and the importance of helping others. I plan to go back next summer and I would encourage anyone who wants to make a difference to try volunteering. You will get more out of it than you expect.