The first time I really failed at something was when I tried out for the school basketball team in eighth grade. I had been playing in the driveway all summer and I thought I was pretty good. My friend Marcus and I would play one-on-one for hours and I could beat him most of the time, so I figured making the team would be no problem.

The tryouts were three days long and I realized pretty quickly that I was out of my league. The other kids were faster and taller and they knew plays and formations that I had never even heard of. I didn't know what a "pick and roll" was. When the coach asked us to run a fast break drill, I had to watch other people do it first and I still got it wrong.

The worst part was the second day when we had to do a scrimmage. I got put on a team with kids I didn't know and I could tell they were annoyed with me because I kept being in the wrong position. One kid said "just stay out of the way" and I pretty much did for the rest of the game. I barely touched the ball.

When the list went up on Friday, my name wasn't on it. Obviously. Marcus made it though, which was hard because I thought we were at the same level. Turns out playing in your driveway and playing on an actual team are totally different things.

I was really upset for a while. I told my mom I didn't care but she knew I did. I thought about trying out again the next year but I didn't. Instead I joined the debate team, which sounds like a weird pivot but it was actually good for me. I found out I was better at arguing than dribbling.

Looking back I think what I learned is that being okay at something in a casual setting doesn't mean you're actually good at it. There's a difference between doing something for fun and doing it competitively. I also learned that failing at one thing can push you toward something else that ends up being a better fit. I never would have tried debate if I had made the basketball team, and debate ended up being one of the best experiences of high school.

I still think about that kid who told me to stay out of the way sometimes. It was mean but he wasn't wrong. I was in over my head and I couldn't see it because I didn't have enough experience to know what good actually looked like. That's probably the biggest lesson — you don't know what you don't know until you put yourself in a situation where it becomes obvious.

So yeah, I failed at basketball tryouts. It felt terrible at the time but it worked out fine. I think everyone needs at least one experience like that to understand that failure isn't the end of anything, it's just information.